.TH MYPSX 1 "mypsx" "User Commands"
.SH NAME
mypsx \- inspect Linux process memory mappings with security context
.SH SYNOPSIS
.B mypsx
[\-p PID] [\-h] [\-v]
.SH DESCRIPTION
mypsx is a Linux process introspection tool that analyzes
kernel-exposed process memory mappings via the procfs interface.

It parses /proc/<pid>/maps and presents Virtual Memory Areas (VMAs)
with semantic classification and security-focused interpretation.

The tool is designed to help reason about exploit constraints,
memory permissions, and runtime mitigations such as NX, ASLR, and stack protections.

.SH OPTIONS
.TP
.B \-p PID
Inspect the memory layout of the specified process. If omitted, defaults to the current shell process.
.TP
.B \-h
Display usage information and exit.
.TP
.B \-v
Enable verbose output, including additional annotations for region roles and backing objects.

.SH OUTPUT
The output includes:
.IP
- Virtual address ranges
.IP
- Memory permissions (r/w/x)
.IP
- Executable vs NX regions
.IP
- Region classification (STACK, HEAP, ELF, LIB, ANON, VDSO)
.IP
- Security posture assessment and mitigation notes (NX, ASLR, ROP/JOP implications)

.SH SECURITY NOTES
mypsx does not read process memory and does not attach to processes.
It relies exclusively on kernel-generated procfs data.
It is safe to run on any process the user owns.

.SH EXAMPLES
.TP
Run against the current shell process:
.B mypsx
.TP
Run against a specific PID:
.B mypsx -p 1234
.TP
Enable verbose output:
.B mypsx -p 1234 -v

.SH SEE ALSO
proc(5), ps(1), pmap(1)

.SH AUTHOR
Roshan Gurung
